CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE.md, before:

# Exp.No:19  
## CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE

---

### AIM  
To write a Python program to take the radius from the user and find the area of a circle using the class name `umbrella` and function name `rain`.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Create a class named `umbrella`.  
3. Define a method `rain(self, r)` inside the class `umbrella` that accepts a radius `r` as an argument.  
4. Inside the `rain` method:  
   - Calculate the area of a circle using the formula:  
     \[ \text{Area} = \pi \times r^2 \]  
   - Use the `math.pi` constant to get the value of π and perform the calculation.  
   - Print the result, formatted to two decimal places.  
5. Prompt the user for an integer input to represent the radius of the circle.  
6. Create an instance of the `umbrella` class and store it in the variable `u`.  
7. Call the `rain` method of the `umbrella` class, passing the user-provided radius `r` as an argument.  
8. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```



```

### OUTPUT



### RESULT

Commit message:

Enhance CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE.md
Updated the markdown file to include author information and improved formatting.

CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE.md, after:

# Exp.No:19  
## CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE

### AIM  
To write a Python program to take the radius from the user and find the area of a circle using the class name `umbrella` and function name `rain`.

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Create a class named `umbrella`.  
3. Define a method `rain(self, r)` inside the class `umbrella` that accepts a radius `r` as an argument.  
4. Inside the `rain` method:  
   - Calculate the area of a circle using the formula:  
     \[ \text{Area} = \pi \times r^2 \]  
   - Use the `math.pi` constant to get the value of π and perform the calculation.  
   - Print the result, formatted to two decimal places.  
5. Prompt the user for an integer input to represent the radius of the circle.  
6. Create an instance of the `umbrella` class and store it in the variable `u`.  
7. Call the `rain` method of the `umbrella` class, passing the user-provided radius `r` as an argument.  
8. Terminate the program.

### PROGRAM

```
Reg.No: 212222060155
Name: Mukesh HS
import math 
class umbrella:
   def rain(self, radius):
   area = math.pi * radius ** 2  
   return area  
radius = float(input())
obj = umbrella()
print(f"Area of circle: {obj.rain(radius):.2f}")
```

### OUTPUT
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0195c902-6883-4949-ad56-76925aa1b0d2)

### RESULT
Thus the Python program to take the radius from the user and find the area of a circle using the class was successfully written and executed.
