FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE.md, before:

# Exp.No:18  
## FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE

---

### AIM  
To write a Python program that reads a file and counts the frequency of each character in it.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Define the function `create_file()` that accepts two arguments:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file.  
   - `content`: The string content to be written into the file.  
3. Open the file specified by `file_path` in write mode (`'w'`), and write the provided `content` into the file.  
4. Close the file (this is automatically done when exiting the `with` block).  
5. Define the function `character_frequency()` that accepts one argument:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file whose character frequency is to be calculated.  
6. Open the file specified by `file_path` in read mode (`'r'`), and read its content into the variable `content`.  
7. Initialize an empty dictionary (`d1`) to store the frequency of each character using `defaultdict(int)`.  
8. Loop through each character in the `content`:  
   - For each character `ch`, increment its corresponding frequency in the dictionary `d1`.  
9. Return the dictionary `d1`, which contains the frequency of each character in the file.  
10. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```

```


### OUTPUT


### RESULT

Commit message:

Update FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE.md

FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE.md, after:

# Exp.No:18  
## FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE

### AIM  
To write a Python program that reads a file and counts the frequency of each character in it.

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Define the function `create_file()` that accepts two arguments:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file.  
   - `content`: The string content to be written into the file.  
3. Open the file specified by `file_path` in write mode (`'w'`), and write the provided `content` into the file.  
4. Close the file (this is automatically done when exiting the `with` block).  
5. Define the function `character_frequency()` that accepts one argument:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file whose character frequency is to be calculated.  
6. Open the file specified by `file_path` in read mode (`'r'`), and read its content into the variable `content`.  
7. Initialize an empty dictionary (`d1`) to store the frequency of each character using `defaultdict(int)`.  
8. Loop through each character in the `content`:  
   - For each character `ch`, increment its corresponding frequency in the dictionary `d1`.  
9. Return the dictionary `d1`, which contains the frequency of each character in the file.  
10. Terminate the program.


### PROGRAM

```
Reg.No: 212222060155
Name: Mukesh HS

from collections import defaultdict
def create_file(file_path, content):
with open(file_path, 'w') as file:
   file.write(content)
def char_frequency(file_path):
frequency=defaultdict(int)
with open(file_path,"r") as f:
   content = f.read()
for i in content:
   frequency[i]+=1
return frequency
```

### OUTPUT
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a5cce20-0d2b-46c9-8c96-936a08972431)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2b0b2c25-415a-415d-8f7f-21d65bf806ab)

### RESULT
Thus the Python program that reads a file and counts the frequency of each character in it was executed suxccessively.
